Hi, I’m John Rofrano, Senior Technical Staff Member, and DevOps Champion at IBM
Research, and I’d like to welcome you to Introduction to DevOps. This course
will help you understand the cultural, as well as technological, transformation
that is required to not only make your DevOps initiative successful but allow it
to flourish. According to a recent DevOps Institute report, demand for DevOps
skills are expected to grow 122% over the next five years, making it one of the
fastest-growing skills in the workforce. Unfortunately, having skills alone
won’t ensure success. Gartner predicts that through 2022, 75% of DevOps
initiatives will fail to meet expectations due to issues around organizational
learning and change. I can’t stress enough, the number one reason for failing to
meet expectations is not around skills, it’s not around tools, but due to issues
around organizational learning and cultural change. Cultural change can have a
significant positive effect on DevOps's success. According to George Spafford,
Senior Director Analyst at Gartner, “People-related factors tend to be the
greatest challenges—not technology.” You see, DevOps is not a tool.  DevOps is
not a job title. DevOps is the practice of development and operations engineers
working together through the entire software development lifecycle, following
Lean and Agile principles that allow them to deliver software in a rapid and
continuous manner. If you want to do it fast …and you want to do it
continuously, then you need to adopt a shared mindset that is at the heart of
the DevOps culture. So, how do you change a culture? In order to change your
culture, you need to learn new ways of how to think, how to work, how to
organize, and how to measure. Throughout this course, we will look at how
businesses are being affected by disruption and how a DevOps culture can help.
We’ll cover thinking differently through social coding and improving software
reuse and sharing. We will learn about ideas from Lean manufacturing such as
working in small batches to reduce waste and creating minimum viable products to
gain valuable insight. We will explore working differently by using test-driven
and behavior-driven development techniques to ensure repeatable behavior and
high code quality. You will see how adopting Continuous Integration and
Continuous Delivery practices ensure that every change contributes to a
potentially shippable feature. But… “Tools are not the solution to a cultural
problem.” According to the 2021 Accelerate State of DevOps Report by the DevOps
Research and Assessment (DORA) team, which, by the way, represents seven years
of research and data from more than 32,000 professionals worldwide: “Team
culture makes a large difference to a team’s ability to deliver software and
meet or exceed their organizational goals.” In order to change your culture,
you’ll need to organize your teams differently because how you organize directly
impacts the architecture and design of the products that you produce. You know,
humans have a knack for figuring out what behavior is rewarded, and then
doing—or at least pretending to do—that rewarded behavior. The last cultural
change we will discuss is measuring differently, and how changing your
measurement system to encourage the correct behavior is critical for your
success because you get what you measure. We’ll also look at how to avoid being
fooled by vanity metrics and how you can use actionable metrics to gain valuable
insight about your product and your customers. Implementing a DevOps initiative
isn’t easy, but it can be very, very rewarding. In order to really embrace the
DevOps culture, you have to be willing to make changes… lots of changes. You
must be willing to experiment and understand that it’s okay if an experiment
fails because “every failure is a learning opportunity.” So, fail fast. You need
to foster the core values of teamwork, accountability, and trust. So, join me in
exploring how you can transform the culture and technology of your organization
so that your DevOps journey will be a successful one. Watch the videos, take the
quizzes, and interact with your peers on the forums because DevOps is a team
sport, and collaboration is encouraged. I like to say: We don’t “do” DevOps… we
“become” DevOps!