After watching this video, you will be able to: Define DevOps, and describe the
essential characteristics of DevOps. What is this DevOps all about? One thing is
for sure, it is an overused "buzzword" in the industry.  If you ask 10 people to
define DevOps, you will get 11 different answers.  Because of this ambiguity,
let’s go back to its inception and work our way forward. In 2009, Patrick Debois
coined the term “development operations.” He said, “Development operations is an
extension of Agile development environments that aims to enhance the process of
software delivery as a whole.” It is an extension of Agile. We are going to talk
about what Agile did for the Devs and how it did nothing for Ops. Patrick Debois
is saying, “What if we applied Agile to Ops? What if we treat them the same?”
This is why sometimes I'll call DevOps “Agile for Ops.” This makes the Ops as
Agile as the Devs by working together for a common goal. Patrick Debois was just
saying that Dev and Ops can and should work together. DevOps is a recognition
that development and operations must stop working in silos. They have to start
working together.  I like to say DevOps is the practice of development and
operation engineers working together during the entire development lifecycle,
following lean and Agile principles that allow them to deliver software in a
rapid and continuous manner.  I want to do it fast. I want to do it continuous.
And I want to do it with Dev and Ops both together through the entire software
lifecycle. To do that, we need to change to a culture of collaboration that
values openness, trust, and transparency.  We must adopt a new application
design that does not require entire systems to be redeployed just to add a
single function. You are not going to be able to deploy these large, monolith
applications 10 times a day. We need automation that accelerates and improves
the consistency of application delivery so that we can deploy and deliver our
software with speed and stability. Once we take that application and we split it
up into lots of little microservices, no human can deploy it anymore, so we need
automation to automate the deployment of all those tiny microservices.  We solve
some problems with applications. We create some new problems with microservices.
We solve those problems with automation. Happens all the time.  Finally, you
need a dynamic software-defined programmable platform to continuously deploy
onto.  You cannot be waiting days or weeks for somebody to provision a server
and configure that server so that you can deploy your application. You have to
say, “I need an environment and I need it now.” You get that environment to come
up, deploy your app, and your software is up and running. It's important to
understand what DevOps is not.  DevOps is not just Development and Ops working
together.  It is a cultural change. DevOps is not simply combining the Dev team
and the Ops team and you’re done. DevOps is not a separate team. I have seen
companies make DevOps teams. It is not a separate team.  If you know anything
about Agile, you do not make an Agile team.  You don’t say, “Oh, we have that
team over there. They are the agile team. They make us Agile." No. Instead, the
company becomes Agile. DevOps is not a team.  It’s just like Agile. And DevOps
is not a tool.  There are many tools that support DevOps. These tools can
reinforce your DevOps culture but they will not change your culture. You cannot
become DevOps by simply buying a set of tools. There is no one-size-fits-all
strategy.  This is what makes it difficult. You must find out what works for
your business.  Are you shipping shrink wrap software? Do you provide software
as a service?  Is your product a software that people download and install
themselves?  It will be different based on what you are delivering, and you
might not be delivering software at all. You might be delivering a service that
software just enhances. So, it’s really important.  Finally, DevOps is not just
about automation. This is the one where the DevOps engineer jobs come in. People
think that if they hire somebody who knows all the DevOps tools, then that
person can automate everything and make them "DevOps." This is not DevOps. The
Devs are still doing the same thing. This is not just Ops automation.  That’s
all it is, automating Ops. DevOps is not just Dev and it is not just Ops. It is
DevOps. One word, one team, one set of measurements. In this video, you learned
that: DevOps is not just Dev and Ops working together while remaining in their
separate silos.  DevOps is a cultural change in which development and operations
engineers work together during the entire development lifecycle.