After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe how applications
evolved to give rise to DevOps, list the three dimensions of DevOps, and
describe some essential characteristics of DevOps. Let's not lose sight of the
goal. What is the goal? Agility is the goal. You want to be doing smart
experimentation. You want to be moving in market with maximum velocity and
minimum risk. This way you can gain quick, valuable insights to consistently
change the value proposition and the quality that you deliver to your customers.
There are three pillars for agility. One of the pillars is DevOps. This includes
cultural change, automated pipelines, infrastructure as code, and immutable
infrastructure. The second pillar is microservices and includes a loosely
coupled application design using microservices that communicate via REST APIs.
Microservices are designed to resist failure and are tested by breaking them and
failing fast. The third pillar is containers. Containers are developer-centric
environments that give us portability and fast startup. They also enable an
ecosystem that allows quick deploys with immutable infrastructure. I like to
call this the perfect storm. Taken separately, these are impressive technologies
on their own, but together they enable powerful change. You have DevOps for
speed and agility, microservices for small deploys, and containers for ephemeral
run times with fast startup. Ephemeral means lasting for a very short time. They
are ephemeral because when a container goes bad, we don't try to fix it. We just
delete it and replace it with a new one. These are throw-away runtimes. Tony
Stafford says, “DevOps starts with learning how to work differently. It embraces
cross-functional teams with openness, transparency, and respect as pillars.”
That's a tall order. Does your organization embrace openness, transparency, and
respect? That is what's required to become DevOps. Let's talk about application
evolution for a moment. In the past, there was Waterfall, with its monolithic
applications deployed on physical servers. Then at some point in time, we
migrated to Agile and used Service Oriented Architectures and virtual machines.
Then DevOps followed. Now we are using microservices deployed in immutable
containers. This has been an incremental evolution. We broke the monoliths into
services. The services were still large, using Service Oriented Architecture,
but we had embraced services as a design concept. Then we had virtualization and
the Cloud. This made things much smaller. With DevOps, we have evolved again
into microservices and containers to deploy them in. DevOps has three
dimensions: culture, methods, and tools. Most companies focus on the tools. Most
vendors focus on the tools as well because that's all they can sell. Some
companies also focus on the methods, which are important. But the most important
thing of all to focus on is culture! Atlassian says, “Culture is the number-one
success factor in DevOps. Building a culture of shared responsibility,
transparency, and faster feedback is the foundation of every high-performing
DevOps team.” If you want to be a high-performing DevOps organization, you need
to change your culture. While tools and methods are important… it is culture
that has the biggest impact. How do you change a culture? Culture is ingrained
within us. It defines who we are. It includes elements such as our language, our
food, our values, and our stories. It is extremely hard to change a culture.
Countries have cultures. Companies have cultures. Many companies attempt to
become DevOps but fail to change their culture. This change must come down from
the top and be embraced from the bottom up, in order for the change to happen.
This is not an easy thing to do. How do you change a culture? You must change
the way people think. They have to start thinking differently. You need to think
about social coding and sharing. You have to change the way they work. They need
to start working differently. Working in small batches and using test-driven and
behavior-driven development. You must change the way you are organized. This is
one a lot of companies don't get. You must organize differently because the
organization has a direct impact on how you build things. Most of all, you must
change the way people are measured. You must change your measurement system and
measure differently because you always get what you measure. In the remainder of
this course, we are going to explore the DevOps way of thinking, working,
organizing, and measuring. In this video, you learned that: Applications evolved
from Waterfall development of monoliths to Agile development of microservices.
DevOps has three dimensions: culture, method, and tools. And the essential
characteristics of DevOps include cultural change, automated pipelines,
infrastructure as code, microservices, containers, and immutable infrastructure.