After watching this video, you will be able to explain the importance of
consequences, describe how functional silos lead to apathy, and identify your
organizational DevOps objective. Jez Humble, the author of the book Continuous
Delivery, once said, “Bad behavior arises when you abstract people away from the
consequences of their actions.” He was referring to the fact that silos abstract
people away from the consequences that their actions have on other silos because
they don’t see them or feel the effect. One example that Jez cites is a
conversation he had with an engineering director. They talked about a company
that had a series of quality problems with their software. They didn’t have a QA
team, so they thought that hiring a QA team would resolve the problem. Much to
their surprise, the quality actually decreased. One reason for this is because
the developers felt that they were no longer responsible for testing their code.
Instead of being focused on quality, they were now focused on getting their
features into "test" as quickly as they could. They figured that it’s QA team’s
job to worry about quality. They abstracted the development team away from the
consequence of writing buggy code. When the developers stopped testing, the QA
team could not manage the increased volume of testing, and the quality of the
software actually went down. This is why we say that functional silos breed bad
behavior. I personally don’t recommend having a QA team.  I like making the
developers responsible for all the tests so that they take pride in the quality
of the code that they develop. Actions have consequences. Here are two things
that you can do to avoid the problem. You can create cross-functional teams so
that everyone is dealing with teammates instead of ticket queues. If you can’t
create cross-functional teams, then have the developers rotate through the
operations so they can feel empathy for what the operations engineers do every
day to keep their application running.  You can also have the operations
engineers join the developer standups and their showcases so that they can
understand what the developers are doing. You can make people responsible by
putting developers on pager duty or having them own the service level agreement
for the products and services they build. It’s amazing, you only have to call a
developer once or twice at Sunday at 3 a.m. and they will start writing better
code on Monday.  So, put them in the on-call rotation and let them feel the pain
of operations and they will start writing better code. The message is clear. If
you abstract people away from the consequences of their actions, they will
become apathetic. Your DevOps organizational objective should be to attain a
shared consciousness with distributed, local control. You want everyone to
understand the big picture of where you are going and what you hope to
accomplish, but you want to give them local control of how to accomplish it.
This empowers people to do their best work instead of waiting for orders from
above. As Werner Vogels, CTO of Amazon says, “You build it, you run it!” There
is no difference between Dev and Ops.  Everyone is responsible for delivering
value to the customer, but you must give them the means to do it. In this video,
you learned that actions without consequences can lead to apathy. Allowing teams
to feel the effect of their actions fosters empathy, resulting in higher-quality
work.  Your organizational DevOps objective should be to attain a shared mindset
and empower everyone to deliver customer value.