After watching this video, you will be able to identify relevant statements for
measuring team culture.  At first, it may seem that measuring your team’s
culture would be hard, but it doesn’t have to be. I want to share with you a set
of statements developed by Dr. Nicole Forsgren when she was the CEO and Chief
Scientist at DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA). These are culture statements
for measuring the teams on a scale of 7, strongly agree, to 1, strongly
disagree. On my team, information is actively sought. Do you strongly agree or
strongly disagree? By “information” we are referring to people being curious
about why things happen. On my team, failures are learning opportunities and
messengers are not punished. We’ve all heard the term “don’t shoot the
messenger.” People are not going to be open and honest about reporting what’s
really going on if they think they will be punished for uncovering something
unpopular. This goes even further than that. Instilling in your team the notion
that “every failure is a learning opportunity” is critical for fostering a
culture of experimentation where it’s okay if experiments fail. It’s also
getting at the heart of something bigger. No one comes to work wanting to bring
down production, but occasionally it happens. It is not the person who failed
but rather the system that failed the person. What could have been done to give
that person better information or better training or fix whatever it was in the
system that failed them? What this question is really asking is, “Do you have a
blameless culture?” It is very difficult to foster a blameless culture, which is
why it is critical to ask questions about it. On my team, responsibilities are
shared. This is measuring the feeling that we are all in this together, right?
There is no such thing as a “hole on your side of the boat.” When things blow
up, everyone pitches in to solve the problem or clean up the mess. On my team,
cross-functional collaboration is encouraged and rewarded. This goes back to the
measurement system. Are people be measured on being collaborators or are people
being rewarded for being lone contributors? Remember, you get what you measure.
This question measures whether people feel they are being rewarded and thus
encouraged to collaborate. On my team, failure causes inquiry. Again, this is
not a “who done it” inquiry but rather a “where did the system fail the people”
inquiry. What was the root cause, and how can we prevent it from happening
again? This is also about continuous improvement. How can we learn from failures
and get better? On my team, new ideas are welcomed. This is critical for ideas
to flow openly. Do people feel that their input and ideas are listened to, or
are they getting shut down or paid “lip service?” You can tell a lot about the
health of your team dynamics by understanding if everyone feels welcome and
contribute their ideas. You may feel that it is difficult to measure your team’s
culture, but really, I like Nicole’s approach and wanted share it with you. In
this video, you learned that: You can rate statements developed by Dr. Nicole
Forsgren to measure your team’s culture including statements about information,
failures, collaboration, and new ideas