After watching this video, you will be able to recognize that software
engineering is different from civil engineering, describe how software
engineering is constantly changing, and describe how the project management
model does not work well for software development.  A common practice that goes
against working DevOps is treating software engineering efforts as if they were
civil engineering projects. For a civil engineering project, you might want to
build an office building. You hire an architect who designs the building and
creates a blueprint. The blueprints are handed off to the construction team who
follows the blueprints to build the building. Once that handoff is made, the
architect moves on to the next project. They may get consulted on some questions
about the blueprint, but largely their job is done, and they move on. The
construction team spends months building the building to the specifications laid
out in the blueprints. When the construction is complete, the building is handed
off to the maintenance team, who then takes over maintenance of the building.
Unless you're in California, the ground doesn't move too much from under the
building and things are fairly steady from that point forward. The problem is,
we treat building software the same way. Software development efforts are
usually run as if they are civil engineering projects. We view it as a project
to be completed and then move on. Architects throw designs over the wall to the
developers, and they move on to the next project. Developers throw code over the
wall to the testers. When the project is complete, the whole thing gets tossed
over the wall to the operations team to run and maintain as part of a "business
as usual" effort. All the people on the project team get reallocated to new work
and maybe a skeleton development team is left for maintenance. In contrast to
this civil engineering approach, software engineering is organic. The software
stack under your application is constantly changing even when the application
doesn't. The operating systems are being patched and packages are being updated
because of newly discovered vulnerabilities. These changes affect the
application, and the operations team has to deal with these changes on their
own. New features are constantly being added. Once an office building is built,
you usually don’t add new floors. Software is not like this. The behavior of the
system is constantly changing. Yet, we continue to treat software engineering as
if it were a civil engineering project. The project model is fundamentally
flawed as a way of doing software development. When a project is complete and
people move on, there is no ownership. This is not the way to create great
software. You want to treat software development like product development
instead. Products have long lives and continue to be enhanced. If, instead of
moving on, the same team builds and maintains the software, they will retain a
deep understanding of the code and feel ownership for the code. They’ll have
great ideas on how to make the code better. We must stop treating software
engineering like civil engineering projects. In DevOps, we want stable,
long-lasting team membership with end-to-end ownership. This is how to create
great software. In this video, you learned that software development is often
viewed as a project to be completed and then passed on to operations to
maintain. Software engineering and the behavior of the system are constantly
changing. Team ownership and stable teams make software development more like
product development and less like project management.