After watching this video, you will be able to define DevOps, identify
misconceptions about DevOps, and recognize the best approach for teams using
DevOps. The term DevOps is often misunderstood. For example, this is a drop-down
list that I saw recently while signing up for a webinar. It asked for my job
function and provided the options of DevOps/Technical Ops or Software
Developer/Engineer. I’m a software engineer who practices DevOps. These job
titles don’t reflect DevOps and frankly, this organization should know better.
Clearly, they did not notice the letters “D-E-V” in DevOps, which stand for
“development.” Here is a clue, if you’re not doing development, then you’re not
doing DevOps, you’re just doing Ops. They apparently did not understand this.
There are both Dev and Ops in software development. For them, DevOps/Technical
Ops is something that the Ops people do. But DevOps is not something that just
Ops people do. There are different perspectives of DevOps. You start with
traditional development and operations that have a wall of confusion between
them. Many organizations, like this webinar organization from my example, think
that DevOps is something the Ops people do, and that DevOps is a subset of
operations. Some organizations think that DevOps is something developers do. But
most organizations think that DevOps is a separate team that sits between Dev
and Ops and keeps both of them happy. I’m going to talk more about that in a
moment. None of these perspectives are correct. DevOps is a mindset that the
whole organization adopts. You will see this a lot in start-ups. DevOps is their
company culture. It’s Dev and Ops working together with the same mindset,
preferably on the same team, using the same goals and measurements. Jez Humble
wrote, “The DevOps movement addresses the dysfunction that results from
organizations composed of functional silos. Thus, creating another functional
silo that sits between Dev and Ops is clearly a poor (and ironic) way to solve
these problems.” Remember, there is no such thing as a DevOps team. That is an
antipattern; it causes more problems than it would solve. You see, DevOps is the
recognition that working in silos doesn’t work. You may have seen this “wall of
confusion” graphic, made famous by Andrew Clay Shafer. It depicts the
diametrically opposed goals of development and operations. Development is
measured by how many new features they can push to production. Operations, on
the other hand, is measured by how stable production is. One way to stabilize
production is to not change anything, like adding new features. If you create a
separate DevOps team, you are just creating another silo that further separates
Dev and Ops. This doesn’t make any sense when you look at it this way. You don’t
create a team to make you DevOps any more than you would create a team to make
you Agile. No one forms an Agile team and claims that their organization is
suddenly Agile because of that team over there. No, the organization must adopt
the Agile mindset, becoming Agile. DevOps is no different. The reality is that
DevOps is not a job title. It is not something one person does, or a team does.
It is a cultural transformation on an organizational scale. It is the practice
of development and operations engineers working together during the entire
software lifecycle, preferably on the same team, following Lean and Agile
principles that allow them to deliver high-quality software stably and
continuously. It starts with learning how to work differently and embracing
cross-functional teams with openness, transparency, and trust as pillars. If
that doesn’t sound like your organization, then you are probably not practicing
DevOps. In this video, you learned that DevOps is a mindset that the whole
organization adopts. DevOps solves the problems caused by siloed teams. DevOps
is the practice of development and operations engineers working together during
the entire software lifecycle, following Lean and Agile principles that allow
them to deliver high-quality results.