After watching this video, you will be able to identify the limitations of
vanity metrics, describe the value of actionable metrics, and list examples of
actionable metrics. Beware of vanity metrics. Vanity metrics are good for
feeling awesome, but bad for taking action. For example, consider the metric of
“hits” to a website. You might proclaim, “This is awesome, we got 10,000 hits to
our website!” But… what does a hit mean? What does a hit represent? Did one
person nervously click 10,000 times? Did 10,000 people click once and go away?
You don’t know. You don’t know what action you should take next because you
don’t know what action drove the visitors to your website in the first place and
so, you don’t know what action to take next. The number of clicks alone is not
an actionable metric. It indicates activity, but you don’t know if it’s good
activity or bad activity. In most cases, it’s not a very helpful metric.
Instead, you want to use actionable metrics. Consider this: imagine you add a
new feature to your website, and you initially introduce it using A/B split
testing in which 50% of the customers in group B see the new feature and the
other 50% in group A don’t. A few days later, you compare the revenue you’ve
earned from each customer group, noticing that group B has 20% higher revenue
per customer. Think of all the decisions you can make. Obviously, you’ll want to
roll out that feature to 100% of your customers to start increasing revenue from
all of them. You might continue to experiment with more features like this one.
Now you have a cause and effect. You know what you did and you can take action
to get more or less the same desired outcome. Realize that you also probably
discovered something that’s particularly valuable to your customers. This is the
power of actionable metrics; so, make sure your metrics are actionable. Here are
some examples of actionable metrics. These come from Eric Ries, author of The
Lean Startup. Reduce time to market for new features. It’s very important to be
able to get new features out to delight your customers as quickly as possible.
Increase overall availability of the product. It doesn’t matter what new
features you introduce if the product isn’t available for your customers to use
them. Reduce the time it takes to deploy a software release. This is part of the
first metric but focuses on deployment once the release is ready to ship.
Increase the percentage of defects detected in testing before production. It’s
very important to detect defects as early as possible. Another way of looking at
this is reduced production-level defects. Make more efficient use of hardware
infrastructure. This directly affects your cost of goods sold. If you reduce
costs, it means more profit, so efficiently using the resources you already have
is something you can measure and act on. And providing performance and user
feedback to the product manager quickly. Having information when it matters is
important for making informed decisions. At her 2017 talk entitled “Tools Won’t
Fix Your Broken DevOps,” Nicole Forsgren identified what she considers the top
four actionable metrics. The first is mean lead time. How long does it take for
an idea to get to production? From the time your stakeholder asks for the new
feature, how long does it take that feature to get into their hands? The second
is release frequency. How quickly can you release things? Hopefully, as quickly
as you need and no sooner. You don’t want to be disrupted by a competitor and
take a long time to respond. The third is change failure rate. When you push
things out, how often do they fail? You want to make sure that, while you can
release quicker, changes aren’t failing when they are deployed. Speed is
meaningless if it destabilizes the system. The fourth is mean time to recovery.
How long does it take when something does fail to recover from the failure?
Instead of being concerned with mean time to failure, you want to be resilient
to fail and recover quickly when it happens. In this video, you learned that
vanity metrics may be appealing at first glance but offer limited actionable
insights. Actionable metrics provide meaningful ways to measure your process and
work toward goals. DevOps actionable metrics include mean lead time, release
frequency, change failure rate, and mean time to recovery.